Before you start to toilet train, it is important to make sure that your child is 
comfortable in the bathroom. If your child is not comfortable, make the bathroom 
a fun place! You can do this is many a ways, either read a book with your child in 
the bathroom with them, play their favorite music and have a dance party with 
them, etc. Also, before starting it is very helpful to make sure that your child is 
constantly drinking fluids, as that will ensure that there is more times for you and 
your child to practice using the toilet appropriately. Another helpful thing to use, 
is a chart to show your child’s progress. You can include the date, time, accidents, 
successful uses of the toilet, and successful initiations by your child.  
 
Once your child is comfortable, then it’s time to set up a routine. Toilet training 
takes time and patience. Set a kitchen timer at regular intervals, anywhere from 
10-20 minutes. When the timer goes off, show your child either a photograph of 
the toilet or take them to the toilet and say, “I need to go potty”, or something 
along those lines. If your child is nonverbal, have a picture of a toilet and say 
“potty” while pointing at the photo. This helps your child hear the correct words 
that will let you know that they need to go to the bathroom. 
Then, sit your child on the toilet for a few minutes, if your child does use the 
toilet, give them verbal praise and a special treat that is reserved for potty time 
only. Like a cookie, marshmallow, or a cool sticker on their potty chart. If your 
child does not use the toilet, just pull up your child’s underwear, and resume 
whatever you were doing before, with a new timer set. 
 
Once your child is accident free for 2-3 days, increase the interval 5-10 minutes. 
From there, you can increase the interval ever 2-3 days until they are on schedule 
of every hour, or they are using the toilet correctly by telling you that they need 
the restroom. Once your child is at the hour interval, stop bringing them to the 
toilet. They should be able to correctly ask, but if you notice they’re not asking 
and you see your child showing signs of having to go to the bathroom, stop 
reinforcing them using the toilet, instead reinforce them asking for it by bringing 
them either towards the bathroom, or showing them the picture of the toilet. 
When your child sees the reminder and says “I need to go potty”, give immediate 
praise and possible small treat for them telling you that need to go. If you decided 
to use the chart to help you and your child track the progress, it will also help you 
see when it is a good time to raise the intervals. 
 
As you’re going through the intervals, set up a dry pants check. Around halfway 
through the timer, ask your child if their pants are dry. You can teach them how 
to check their pants with their hand and if it is dry, you can give them praise and 
reinforce the toilet training by saying “Good job! We potty in the toilet!” if your 
child does have an accident, try and keep it positive. “Good try, you almost made 
it!” and take your child to the toilet while reminding them where they use the 
restroom.  
 
==External links==
For more helpful tips, please visit Car Autism Roadmap website. I found that it has 
many helpful tips to aid you in toliet training.  
* https://www.carautismroadmap.org/toilet-training/ 
 
The website How to ABA, also has a very nice layout that should help you. 
* https://www.carautismroadmap.org/toilet-training/