Mark Wolraich, M.D., Chief of the Section of Developmental and Behavioral
Pediatrics at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center and the Director
of the Child Study Center suggest to “Try and identify the reasons for regression,
as addressing them will help the child return to where (they) (where).”
There could be a few reasons for the regression. One reason could be that the
child wasn’t actually toilet trained. A toilet trained child would be one that should
want to use the toilet, if your child is having an accident every day, you might
need to start the whole process of toilet training over again.
Another reason could be stress, or they get distracted easily. If it is stress, either
from a new routine, a new school, or a new sibling, once your child gets into the
new routine, they should fall right back into their training. If they are getting
distracted easily, they might not notice when they have to use the restroom. Go
back to the toilet training of using a timer with a set interval, and having your
child sit on the toilet for a certain time period. If they correctly use it, give them
verbal praise. If they don’t, stay positive with them and say something along the
lines of “that’s okay! We can try again later.” And go back to whatever you were
doing before the timer went off, and repeat with each interval.
Another reason could be health issues. Make sure your child is drinking plenty of
fluids and eating plenty of fiber if they are constipated. If you are still concerned,
consult your pediatrician.
If your child is going through a regression, never punish your child for their
accident. If they do have an accident, acknowledge that they had an accident, and
have them sit on the toilet for a few minutes and let them know that this is where
they pee and if they need to go, let you know.
Another way to help with the regression is to give them gentle reminders. You can
do this through the timer and when it goes off, say “lets go potty!”. If they do use 
it, immediate praise and possibly a treat depending upon your system. If they
don’t, let them know that it is alright and that they can try again later.

==External links==
One website that can offer help is Parents.
* https://www.parents.com/toddlers-preschoolers/potty-training/problems/howto-deal-with-potty-training-regression/