One important thing to remember when thinking about toilet training is that
there is no right age to start at. Toilet training requires a lot of different complex
skills that your child will have to master, and as you know your child best, you will
have the sense that the time is right.
There are some signs that will give you the hint that your child is ready to start
potty training. One might be that your child can pull down their own diaper or
underpants. Another would be your child asking questions about the bathroom
when seeing another family member go in there. If your child can understand or
verbally let you know when their diaper is wet or tell you that they need to go
pee, that is another indication. Also, if they can keep their diaper dry for two
hours at a time during the day, they could possibly be ready to start toilet
training.
There are some things that you can do to prepare your child for potty training.
You can get a potty chair and keep it in a specific spot in your house, and let your
child get familiar with it. If possible, let your child pick out their own so that they
feel like a part of the process from the start. Once you have their training toilet,
have your child sit on it and get comfortable. If you get them used to the new
toilet before they have to use it, it should not feel as foreign to them when they
do start using it for its intended use. Start getting your child familiar with the
language and as you’re changing their diaper or if you have them on the toilet you
can say things like “pee pee” and “poop” that way they can start to associate the
language that they’ll use.
Pampers is a wonderful website to use to help better understand when your child
is toilet training.

==External links==
* https://www.pampers.com/en-us/toddler/potty-training/article/when-to-startpotty-training-signs-your-child-is-ready
Sleeping Should Be Easy is a great website in helping prepare your child for potty
training.
* https://sleepingshouldbeeasy.com/potty-training-prep/