According to the Cleveland Clinic, about 15% of children ages 5 or older actually
stop wetting the bed each year. So its still perfectly normal for a child to wet the
bed up until the age of 7. It is often just a stage in their development. And while
girls can and do wet the bed, it is 2 times for likely for a boy to wet the bed.
There are a few things that can cause bedwetting. Dr. Charles Kwon is a pediatric
nephrologist, says that the underlying issue is usually a bladder that’s not
matured yet. Other possible causes can be a hormone imbalance, constipation,
the child is having a lot of stress and anxiety, they have ADHD, they have a small
bladder, or there is a family history of childhood bedwetting. Bed wetting in some
cases could also be a sign of sleep apnea if your child snores a lot or shows other
signs of sleep apnea, a UTI (urinary tract infections), or even diabetes. Talking
with your childs doctor is always suggested, just in case.
There are a few suggestions on how to stop bedwetting from doctors. You can
shift times for drinking, have your child increase their liquid intake earlier in the
day and after dinner, stop their fluid intake. Another thing you can do is schedule
bathroom breaks for your child, ever few hours, and then again right before
bedtime. Also, always be encouraging and positive, constantly reward their
success and don’t be negative. Instead getting angry that they wet the bed again,
say something along the lines of “that’s okay, we’ll just have more potty breaks
today and try again tonight.” Never punish them for wetting the bed. You also
don’t want to wake up your child to urinate, because that will only lead to more
sleeplessness and frustration for you and your child.
Sometimes, an earlier bedtime is the answer. Often, a child is a deep sleeper
because they just aren’t getting enough sleep. Another suggestion is eliminate
bladder irritants such as caffeine (chocolate milk and coco), and if that doesn’t
work, cut out citrus juices, artificial flavorings, dyes, and sweeteners as those can
all irritate bladders. Try and avoid thirst overload, one way you can do this by
seeing if your child’s school allows them water bottles that way they can drink
throughout the day and avoid gulping down water after school. They also have a

device that you can clip onto your child’s underwear or place on the bed that
detects moisture and the alarm goes off, and pediatric urologist Dr Audrey Rhee,
MD, suggest that one might be helpful but only if your child is motivated to stop
the issue. “If they’re still sneaking drinks late at night and eating what they
shouldn’t, then it doesn’t make sense to invest in an expensive bedwetting alarm.
So, I directly ask a child if bedwetting bothers them, to find out if it’s the parents’
frustration that brought the child to the appointment or their own,” Dr. Rhee
says. If there not motivated yet to stop, then possibly as they get older the
opportunities to go to slumber parties and weekend trips with family and friends
could likely motivate your child to stop.

==External links==
Cleveland Clinic is a wonderful website with advice on this topic.
https://health.clevelandclinic.org/how-to-help-your-child-stop-wetting-the-bed2/
Bedwetting TheraPee is another great website to not only learn more about
bedwetting, but also to purchase a bedwetting alarm if you choose to do so.
https://www.bedwettingtherapy.com/all-about-bedwetting/
Family doctor is another great website that is loaded with a lot of information
that can be helpful.
https://familydoctor.org/enuresis-bed-wetting/