Sometimes, for the child, it’s not about the food itself that they are being picky
over, it’s about having a sense of control. There are different ways to help your
child feel like they have some control over their food.
One way to try to help a child that is a picky eater is to set realistic expectations. If
you want them to get used to a new food, it can take up to twelve exposures to
the new food to start to like it. It doesn’t mean that they have to eat twelve
times, they just have to either see it, help prepare it, or listen to someone talk
about it. They also might just need to smell or touch new foods, to try and get a
better understanding of it. You can help encourage your child by talking about the
food’s color, smell, and texture, but don’t discuss with them if it tastes good or
not.
Another way to help your child get over the habit is to give them options that you
want them to eat, and don’t make special meals just for them. They eat what you
eat, but they can have options. If you don’t want your child eating butter and
noodles for every meal, don’t make it an option. For example, for a snack after
school you can put out apples, grapes, and carrots, and that way even if they
don’t eat the eat one or two of the snacks, they’re still making a healthy choice
and they feel like they have a say in what they eat as well.
You can also have your child be a part of the meal prep, to help give them a sense
of control over their food. You can have them pick between two or three veggies
for dinner, have them help set the table, or have them help you pick out groceries
at the grocery store. Another great piece of advice is to relax and enjoy
mealtimes. Make eating a positive experience, and realize that not every meal is
going to be a perfect meal, because even the healthiest person alive will have a
meal or two that is not perfectly balanced and that is perfectly fine.
A wonderful website that can offer some help is the Mayo Clinic website, the link
is below.

==External links==
https://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/childrens-health/indepth/childrens-health/art-20044948
Another wonderful website to use for helpful tips is NBC News.
https://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/childrens-health/indepth/childrens-health/art-20044948