There are a few things that you can do if your child has a hard time drinking from
a bottle, one thing would be to try and give the your child the bottle as soon as
they wake up, wither that be when they wake up in the morning or after a nap.
Their instinct typically takes over when they’re still sleepy. Be cautious that if you
let your child get overly hungry in between feedings, that can cause the child to
get fussy and make it harder for them to be fed.
Another thing that can help your child take a bottle would be to create a relaxing
environment each time you offer the bottle, for example, play soft calming music,
sit somewhere you can gently rock your child as you feed them. If you can have a
quiet dark room it will help relax child and you. Children feed off the energy of the
adults that they are surrounded by.
You can also try and give your child a different type of bottle or nipple. Sometimes
the solution is that easy, you just have to experiment with both the bottle and the
nipple of the bottle. There are nipples levels based upon age, but every child is
different so the nipple level that it says they should be at does not mean that’s
what your child wants or likes. While there is a countless number of combinations
out there and it seems daunting, your lactation specialist or child’s doctor could
help you figure it out.
One more thing that can help is to experiment with the bottle feeding position
that you are using. Your child might just like to eat while sitting or lying down a
certain way. You could try cradling them at a 45-degree angle while keeping their
head and neck aligned, sitting upright so that their back is against their stomach,
or while sitting or lying down, bend your legs and position your baby so they face
you with their head resting against your knees, their back against your thighs and
their feet on your stomach.
If these tips don’t work, you should call your child’s doctor, because there might
be another reason that they are not taking the bottle.

==External links==
Health Partners is a great website to help check out some more helpful tips.
https://www.healthpartners.com/blog/baby-wont-take-bottle-help/

Lacted is another website with some helpful tips on how to get your child to take
a bottle.
https://lacted.org/iable-breastfeeding-education-handouts/bottle-refusal/