It is perfectly normal for a child to have a rough day, they are tiny humans after
all. If it is just one day that they are acting out, it could be because they’re tired,
hungry, or frustrated and they don’t understand how to get out the words for the
feelings that they have inside of them. We aren’t born with a knowledge of how
to express our feelings and emotions, and if a child never learns how to identify
and resolve the negative emotions, it can cause a pattern of behaviors that are
problematic and sometimes destructive.
First, what is acting out? We typically use that term when were describing
behaviors that we think are disruptive to our typically day to day. But we cannot
forget that because children don’t typically know how to express themselves, they
use acting out as a way to communicate their thoughts and feelings. So essentially
children act out to reach a goal or have a need met but do so without even
realizing it most times.
What to do if your child is not listening? A lot of times, people jump to conclusion
that they’re child isn’t listening as they are told to turn off the ipad, or turn off the
tv and clean up. But, as Shefali Tsabary Ph.D and author of The Awakened Family
points out, they are often just distracted or having too much fun and cannot pull
their attention away from what they are doing. One suggestion would to be let
them see the benefit in listening. Kids are told what to do all day long, and no one
likes that. So try offering them choices after showing them the benefit of
listening. For example, “hey we can’t have ice cream until the dishes from dinner
are washed. We don’t have anything to put them in! So do you want to rinse
them or load them into the dishwasher?”
If you think that your child is just acting wild, remember what Lise Eliot, Ph.D.,
associate professor of neuroscience at Rosalind Franklin University of
Medicine and Science, in North Chicago, Illinois says, that young ki ds have
energy to burn yet lack the ability to inhibit their body. So try to give your

child plenty of time for physically activities and if there isn’t space or its not
an appropriate place for them to run around, try and give them a task to do,
like, if they’re big enough, pushing the shopping cart, or help bagging the
groceries at the grocery store.
If your child is talking back or throwing a tantrum, try not to take it
personally. If they get angry and call you a stupid head, just take a calming
breath and remind them that your family doesn’t use language like that, and
that you can see that they are mad. Suggest taking some time to calm down,
that way you can go back to doing whatever task you where doing in the
moment. Some families use a certain chair and call it their thinking chair, so
its not a time out chair. It’s a chair for your child to go a nd calm down, and
think about why they are feeling that way. A thinking chair, or even just
having a safe space (example, bedroom) for your child to get out their
emotions when they’re having a tantrum is a great way for them to get their
feelings and emotions out. Remember, they don’t have the capability to
express themselves verbally, so let them get their emotions out, and let
them know they can come and talk to you after and receive advice, hugs, a
kiss, whatever they need, after they are done. Compassion will help your
child see that having “bad” feelings is okay, and having them separate from
everyone while letting them out will help teach them that you shouldn’t act
that way in public.

==External links==
The online website Parents has some more helpful ideas, I would hi ghly
suggest checking it out.
https://www.parents.com/kids/discipline/strategies/is-your-child-actingout-or-just-acting-his-age/